<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXII: Dark Places</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="volume-2" id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Dark Places</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>‚ÄúThe dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.‚Äù</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>Trailing wearily behind a rude wagon, and over a ruder road, Tom and his associates faced onward.</p>
			<p>In the wagon was seated Simon Legree and the two women, still fettered together, were stowed away with some baggage in the back part of it, and the whole company were seeking Legree‚Äôs plantation, which lay a good distance off.</p>
			<p>It was a wild, forsaken road, now winding through dreary pine barrens, where the wind whispered mournfully, and now over log causeways, through long cypress swamps, the doleful trees rising out of the slimy, spongy ground, hung with long wreaths of funeral black moss, while ever and anon the loathsome form of the moccasin snake might be seen sliding among broken stumps and shattered branches that lay here and there, rotting in the water.</p>
			<p>It is disconsolate enough, this riding, to the stranger, who, with well-filled pocket and well-appointed horse, threads the lonely way on some errand of business; but wilder, drearier, to the man enthralled, whom every weary step bears further from all that man loves and prays for.</p>
			<p>So one should have thought, that witnessed the sunken and dejected expression on those dark faces; the wistful, patient weariness with which those sad eyes rested on object after object that passed them in their sad journey.</p>
			<p>Simon rode on, however, apparently well pleased, occasionally pulling away at a flask of spirit, which he kept in his pocket.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI say, <em>you</em>!‚Äù he said, as he turned back and caught a glance at the dispirited faces behind him. ‚ÄúStrike up a song, boys‚ÅÝ‚Äîcome!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The men looked at each other, and the ‚Äú<em>come</em>‚Äù was repeated, with a smart crack of the whip which the driver carried in his hands. Tom began a Methodist hymn.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p>
					<span>‚ÄúJerusalem, my happy home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Name ever dear to me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When shall my sorrows have an end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy joys when shall‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>‚ÄúShut up, you black cuss!‚Äù roared Legree; ‚Äúdid ye think I wanted any o‚Äô yer infernal old Methodism? I say, tune up, now, something real rowdy‚ÅÝ‚Äîquick!‚Äù</p>
			<p>One of the other men struck up one of those unmeaning songs, common among the slaves.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p>
					<span>‚ÄúMas‚Äôr see‚Äôd me cotch a coon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">High boys, high!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He laughed to split‚ÅÝ‚Äîd‚Äôye see the moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ho! ho! ho! boys, ho!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ho! yo! hi‚ÅÝ‚Äîe! <em>oh!</em>‚Äù</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The singer appeared to make up the song to his own pleasure, generally hitting on rhyme, without much attempt at reason; and the party took up the chorus, at intervals,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
				<p>
					<span>‚ÄúHo! ho! ho! boys, ho!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High‚ÅÝ‚Äîe‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh! high‚ÅÝ‚Äîe‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh!‚Äù</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>It was sung very boisterouly, and with a forced attempt at merriment; but no wail of despair, no words of impassioned prayer, could have had such a depth of woe in them as the wild notes of the chorus. As if the poor, dumb heart, threatened‚ÅÝ‚Äîprisoned‚ÅÝ‚Äîtook refuge in that inarticulate sanctuary of music, and found there a language in which to breathe its prayer to God! There was a prayer in it, which Simon could not hear. He only heard the boys singing noisily, and was well pleased; he was making them ‚Äúkeep up their spirits.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, my little dear,‚Äù said he, turning to Emmeline, and laying his hand on her shoulder, ‚Äúwe‚Äôre almost home!‚Äù</p>
			<p>When Legree scolded and stormed, Emmeline was terrified; but when he laid his hand on her, and spoke as he now did, she felt as if she had rather he would strike her. The expression of his eyes made her soul sick, and her flesh creep. Involuntarily she clung closer to the mulatto woman by her side, as if she were her mother.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou didn‚Äôt ever wear earrings,‚Äù he said, taking hold of her small ear with his coarse fingers.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, Mas‚Äôr!‚Äù said Emmeline, trembling and looking down.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I‚Äôll give you a pair, when we get home, if you‚Äôre a good girl. You needn‚Äôt be so frightened; I don‚Äôt mean to make you work very hard. You‚Äôll have fine times with me, and live like a lady‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly be a good girl.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Legree had been drinking to that degree that he was inclining to be very gracious; and it was about this time that the enclosures of the plantation rose to view. The estate had formerly belonged to a gentleman of opulence and taste, who had bestowed some considerable attention to the adornment of his grounds. Having died insolvent, it had been purchased, at a bargain, by Legree, who used it, as he did everything else, merely as an implement for moneymaking. The place had that ragged, forlorn appearance, which is always produced by the evidence that the care of the former owner has been left to go to utter decay.</p>
			<p>What was once a smooth-shaven lawn before the house, dotted here and there with ornamental shrubs, was now covered with frowsy tangled grass, with horseposts set up, here and there, in it, where the turf was stamped away, and the ground littered with broken pails, cobs of corn, and other slovenly remains. Here and there, a mildewed jessamine or honeysuckle hung raggedly from some ornamental support, which had been pushed to one side by being used as a horse-post. What once was a large garden was now all grown over with weeds, through which, here and there, some solitary exotic reared its forsaken head. What had been a conservatory had now no window-shades, and on the mouldering shelves stood some dry, forsaken flowerpots, with sticks in them, whose dried leaves showed they had once been plants.</p>
			<p>The wagon rolled up a weedy gravel walk, under a noble avenue of China trees, whose graceful forms and ever-springing foliage seemed to be the only things there that neglect could not daunt or alter‚ÅÝ‚Äîlike noble spirits, so deeply rooted in goodness, as to flourish and grow stronger amid discouragement and decay.</p>
			<p>The house had been large and handsome. It was built in a manner common at the South; a wide verandah of two stories running round every part of the house, into which every outer door opened, the lower tier being supported by brick pillars.</p>
			<p>But the place looked desolate and uncomfortable; some windows stopped up with boards, some with shattered panes, and shutters hanging by a single hinge‚ÅÝ‚Äîall telling of coarse neglect and discomfort.</p>
			<p>Bits of board, straw, old decayed barrels and boxes, garnished the ground in all directions; and three or four ferocious-looking dogs, roused by the sound of the wagon-wheels, came tearing out, and were with difficulty restrained from laying hold of Tom and his companions, by the effort of the ragged servants who came after them.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYe see what ye‚Äôd get!‚Äù said Legree, caressing the dogs with grim satisfaction, and turning to Tom and his companions. ‚ÄúYe see what ye‚Äôd get, if ye try to run off. These yer dogs has been raised to track niggers; and they‚Äôd jest as soon chaw one on ye up as eat their supper. So, mind yerself! How now, Sambo!‚Äù he said, to a ragged fellow, without any brim to his hat, who was officious in his attentions. ‚ÄúHow have things been going?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFust rate, Mas‚Äôr.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuimbo,‚Äù said Legree to another, who was making zealous demonstrations to attract his attention, ‚Äúye minded what I telled ye?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGuess I did, didn‚Äôt I?‚Äù</p>
			<p>These two colored men were the two principal hands on the plantation. Legree had trained them in savageness and brutality as systematically as he had his bulldogs; and, by long practice in hardness and cruelty, brought their whole nature to about the same range of capacities. It is a common remark, and one that is thought to militate strongly against the character of the race, that the negro overseer is always more tyrannical and cruel than the white one. This is simply saying that the negro mind has been more crushed and debased than the white. It is no more true of this race than of every oppressed race, the world over. The slave is always a tyrant, if he can get a chance to be one.</p>
			<p>Legree, like some potentates we read of in history, governed his plantation by a sort of resolution of forces. Sambo and Quimbo cordially hated each other; the plantation hands, one and all, cordially hated them; and, by playing off one against another, he was pretty sure, through one or the other of the three parties, to get informed of whatever was on foot in the place.</p>
			<p>Nobody can live entirely without social intercourse; and Legree encouraged his two black satellites to a kind of coarse familiarity with him‚ÅÝ‚Äîa familiarity, however, at any moment liable to get one or the other of them into trouble; for, on the slightest provocation, one of them always stood ready, at a nod, to be a minister of his vengeance on the other.</p>
			<p>As they stood there now by Legree, they seemed an apt illustration of the fact that brutal men are lower even than animals. Their coarse, dark, heavy features; their great eyes, rolling enviously on each other; their barbarous, guttural, half-brute intonation; their dilapidated garments fluttering in the wind‚ÅÝ‚Äîwere all in admirable keeping with the vile and unwholesome character of everything about the place.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere, you Sambo,‚Äù said Legree, ‚Äútake these yer boys down to the quarters; and here‚Äôs a gal I‚Äôve got for <em>you</em>,‚Äù said he, as he separated the mulatto woman from Emmeline, and pushed her towards him;‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúI promised to bring you one, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The woman gave a start, and drawing back, said, suddenly:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúO, Mas‚Äôr! I left my old man in New Orleans.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat of that, you‚ÅÝ‚Äî; won‚Äôt you want one here? None o‚Äô your words‚ÅÝ‚Äîgo long!‚Äù said Legree, raising his whip.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCome, mistress,‚Äù he said to Emmeline, ‚Äúyou go in here with me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>A dark, wild face was seen, for a moment, to glance at the window of the house; and, as Legree opened the door, a female voice said something, in a quick, imperative tone. Tom, who was looking, with anxious interest, after Emmeline, as she went in, noticed this, and heard Legree answer, angrily, ‚ÄúYou may hold your tongue! I‚Äôll do as I please, for all you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Tom heard no more; for he was soon following Sambo to the quarters. The quarters was a little sort of street of rude shanties, in a row, in a part of the plantation, far off from the house. They had a forlorn, brutal, forsaken air. Tom‚Äôs heart sunk when he saw them. He had been comforting himself with the thought of a cottage, rude, indeed, but one which he might make neat and quiet, and where he might have a shelf for his Bible, and a place to be alone out of his laboring hours. He looked into several; they were mere rude shells, destitute of any species of furniture, except a heap of straw, foul with dirt, spread confusedly over the floor, which was merely the bare ground, trodden hard by the tramping of innumerable feet.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhich of these will be mine?‚Äù said he, to Sambo, submissively.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDunno; ken turn in here, I spose,‚Äù said Sambo; ‚Äúspects thar‚Äôs room for another thar; thar‚Äôs a pretty smart heap o‚Äô niggers to each on ‚Äôem, now; sure, I dunno what I‚Äôs to do with more.‚Äù</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was late in the evening when the weary occupants of the shanties came flocking home‚ÅÝ‚Äîmen and women, in soiled and tattered garments, surly and uncomfortable, and in no mood to look pleasantly on newcomers. The small village was alive with no inviting sounds; hoarse, guttural voices contending at the hand-mills where their morsel of hard corn was yet to be ground into meal, to fit it for the cake that was to constitute their only supper. From the earliest dawn of the day, they had been in the fields, pressed to work under the driving lash of the overseers; for it was now in the very heat and hurry of the season, and no means was left untried to press everyone up to the top of their capabilities. ‚ÄúTrue,‚Äù says the negligent lounger; ‚Äúpicking cotton isn‚Äôt hard work.‚Äù Isn‚Äôt it? And it isn‚Äôt much inconvenience, either, to have one drop of water fall on your head; yet the worst torture of the inquisition is produced by drop after drop, drop after drop, falling moment after moment, with monotonous succession, on the same spot; and work, in itself not hard, becomes so, by being pressed, hour after hour, with unvarying, unrelenting sameness, with not even the consciousness of free will to take from its tediousness. Tom looked in vain among the gang, as they poured along, for companionable faces. He saw only sullen, scowling, imbruted men, and feeble, discouraged women, or women that were not women‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe strong pushing away the weak‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe gross, unrestricted animal selfishness of human beings, of whom nothing good was expected and desired; and who, treated in every way like brutes, had sunk as nearly to their level as it was possible for human beings to do. To a late hour in the night the sound of the grinding was protracted; for the mills were few in number compared with the grinders, and the weary and feeble ones were driven back by the strong, and came on last in their turn.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHo yo!‚Äù said Sambo, coming to the mulatto woman, and throwing down a bag of corn before her; ‚Äúwhat a cuss yo name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLucy,‚Äù said the woman.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWal, Lucy, yo my woman now. Yo grind dis yer corn, and get <em>my</em> supper baked, ye har?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI an‚Äôt your woman, and I won‚Äôt be!‚Äù said the woman, with the sharp, sudden courage of despair; ‚Äúyou go long!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll kick yo, then!‚Äù said Sambo, raising his foot threateningly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYe may kill me, if ye choose‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe sooner the better! Wish‚Äôt I was dead!‚Äù said she.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI say, Sambo, you go to spilin‚Äô the hands, I‚Äôll tell Mas‚Äôr o‚Äô you,‚Äù said Quimbo, who was busy at the mill, from which he had viciously driven two or three tired women, who were waiting to grind their corn.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd, I‚Äôll tell him ye won‚Äôt let the women come to the mills, yo old nigger!‚Äù said Sambo. ‚ÄúYo jes keep to yo own row.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Tom was hungry with his day‚Äôs journey, and almost faint for want of food.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThar, yo!‚Äù said Quimbo, throwing down a coarse bag, which contained a peck of corn; ‚Äúthar, nigger, grab, take car on‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîyo won‚Äôt get no more, <em>dis</em> yer week.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Tom waited till a late hour, to get a place at the mills; and then, moved by the utter weariness of two women, whom he saw trying to grind their corn there, he ground for them, put together the decaying brands of the fire, where many had baked cakes before them, and then went about getting his own supper. It was a new kind of work there‚ÅÝ‚Äîa deed of charity, small as it was; but it woke an answering touch in their hearts‚ÅÝ‚Äîan expression of womanly kindness came over their hard faces; they mixed his cake for him, and tended its baking; and Tom sat down by the light of the fire, and drew out his Bible‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor he had need for comfort.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs that?‚Äù said one of the woman.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA Bible,‚Äù said Tom.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood Lord! han‚Äôt seen un since I was in Kentuck.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWas you raised in Kentuck?‚Äù said Tom, with interest.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, and well raised, too; never ‚Äôspected to come to dis yer!‚Äù said the woman, sighing.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs dat ar book, anyway?‚Äù said the other woman.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, the Bible.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLaws a me! what‚Äôs dat?‚Äù said the woman.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo tell! you never hearn on‚Äôt?‚Äù said the other woman. ‚ÄúI used to har Missis a readin‚Äô on‚Äôt, sometimes, in Kentuck; but, laws o‚Äô me! we don‚Äôt har nothin‚Äô here but crackin‚Äô and swarin‚Äô.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRead a piece, anyways!‚Äù said the first woman, curiously, seeing Tom attentively poring over it.</p>
			<p>Tom read‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúCome unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThem‚Äôs good words, enough,‚Äù said the woman; ‚Äúwho says ‚Äôem?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe Lord,‚Äù said Tom.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI jest wish I know‚Äôd whar to find Him,‚Äù said the woman. ‚ÄúI would go; ‚Äôpears like I never should get rested again. My flesh is fairly sore, and I tremble all over, every day, and Sambo‚Äôs allers a jawin‚Äô at me, ‚Äôcause I doesn‚Äôt pick faster; and nights it‚Äôs most midnight ‚Äôfore I can get my supper; and den ‚Äôpears like I don‚Äôt turn over and shut my eyes, ‚Äôfore I hear de horn blow to get up, and at it agin in de mornin‚Äô. If I knew whar de Lor was, I‚Äôd tell him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs here, he‚Äôs everywhere,‚Äù said Tom.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLor, you an‚Äôt gwine to make me believe dat ar! I know de Lord an‚Äôt here,‚Äù said the woman; ‚Äú‚Ää‚Äôtan‚Äôt no use talking, though. I‚Äôs jest gwine to camp down, and sleep while I ken.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The women went off to their cabins, and Tom sat alone, by the smouldering fire, that flickered up redly in his face.</p>
			<p>The silver, fair-browed moon rose in the purple sky, and looked down, calm and silent, as God looks on the scene of misery and oppression‚ÅÝ‚Äîlooked calmly on the lone black man, as he sat, with his arms folded, and his Bible on his knee.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs God <b>here</b>?‚Äù Ah, how is it possible for the untaught heart to keep its faith, unswerving, in the face of dire misrule, and palpable, unrebuked injustice? In that simple heart waged a fierce conflict; the crushing sense of wrong, the foreshadowing, of a whole life of future misery, the wreck of all past hopes, mournfully tossing in the soul‚Äôs sight, like dead corpses of wife, and child, and friend, rising from the dark wave, and surging in the face of the half-drowned mariner! Ah, was it easy <em>here</em> to believe and hold fast the great password of Christian faith, that ‚ÄúGod <b>Is</b>, and is the <b>rewarder</b> of them that diligently seek Him‚Äù?</p>
			<p>Tom rose, disconsolate, and stumbled into the cabin that had been allotted to him. The floor was already strewn with weary sleepers, and the foul air of the place almost repelled him; but the heavy night-dews were chill, and his limbs weary, and, wrapping about him a tattered blanket, which formed his only bed-clothing, he stretched himself in the straw and fell asleep.</p>
			<p>In dreams, a gentle voice came over his ear; he was sitting on the mossy seat in the garden by Lake Pontchartrain, and Eva, with her serious eyes bent downward, was reading to him from the Bible; and he heard her read.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and the rivers they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee; for I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Gradually the words seemed to melt and fade, as in a divine music; the child raised her deep eyes, and fixed them lovingly on him, and rays of warmth and comfort seemed to go from them to his heart; and, as if wafted on the music, she seemed to rise on shining wings, from which flakes and spangles of gold fell off like stars, and she was gone.</p>
			<p>Tom woke. Was it a dream? Let it pass for one. But who shall say that that sweet young spirit, which in life so yearned to comfort and console the distressed, was forbidden of God to assume this ministry after death?</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>It is a beautiful belief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That ever round our head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are hovering, on angel wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The spirits of the dead.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
